# Tokens (LITH, veLITH)

## LITH: Native utility token of the protocol

### LITH Utility

* **Liquidity Incentives**: `$LITH` is distributed as emissions to attract liquidity providers on Lithos, provide optimal trading conditions for end users and drive revenue for Lithos.
* **Governance Decentralisation**: Continuous `$LITH` emissions ensure that any party can permissionlessly acquire influence over Lithos's governance and revenue flows, supporting an open and dynamic ecosystem.

### LITH: Cash-flow based token

Balancing weekly inflation with sustained locking demand helps preserve `$LITH` fair market value over time:

1. `$LITH` weekly emissions attracts Liquidity Providers
2. Liquidity generates organic trading fees and attracts external voting incentive deposits from partner protocols seeking deeper liquidity.
3. To capture these revenue flows, `$LITH` must be locked into `veLITH`.

***

## veLITH: ERC-721 governance token in the form of an NFT (non-fungible token)

`veLITH` is the vote-escrowed version of `$LITH`. Users can lock their `$LITH` tokens for up to 4 years to get `veLITH`. The longer the lock, the higher the amount of `veLITH` voting power received.

To encourage continuous relocking and sustained participation from stakeholders, the `veLITH` balance of users declines over time until it reaches zero at the conclusion of the initial locking period.

### veLITH Utility

* **Protocol Revenue Access**: `veLITH` holders can vote for gauges on a weekly basis, and access 90% of the trading fees generated by LPs who opt to receive `$LITH` emissions as well as 100% of the voting incentives deposited by partners on the associated pool.
* **Governance Participation**: `veLITH` holders can partake in governance and cast votes for the protocol improvement proposals.

### veLITH Specifications

* **ve(3,3) Concept**: Combination of the anti-dilution rebase mechanism introduced by Olympus DAO and Curve's vote-escrowed model. The ve(3,3) concept was initiated by Andre Cronje in the original Solidly DEX.
* **Gauge**: Smart contract that distributes token emissions (`$LITH`) to a specific liquidity pool based on votes cast by `veLITH` holders.
* **Voting Incentives**: Custom amounts of tokens deposited by partners on a gauge to attract votes from `veLITH` holders.
* **Anti-Dilution Rebase**: `veLITH` holders are protected from dilution through a weekly rebase: 30% of `$LITH` weekly emissions are distributed to `veLITH` holders, as an increase of their locked position (_i.e. cannot be claimed before the unlock of the position_).
* **Max Lock**: 4 years.
* **Flexibility**: `veLITH` positions can be increased, relocked, merged, split, and sold on the secondary market.

### veLITH Voting Mechanisms

Voting operates on a weekly cycle, known as an Epoch, which resets every 7 days. At the end of each epoch, rewards are distributed exclusively to `veLITH` holders who voted for specific gauges (liquidity pools).

You only earn revenue from the pools you've actively voted on during that period:

* Trading fees and voting incentives become claimable as a lump sum after the end of the Epoch.
* Voting must be cast each epoch to remain eligible for reward. One-click "Revote" function is available.
* All vote weights reset at the start of each new epoch; voting is required every epoch to maintain eligibility for rewards.
* Votes can be modified or reset at any time.

***

## Token Addresses

_Token addresses will be published upon deployment to Plasma blockchain._

***
